We have heard from many of you
how much you’ve really appreciated JW News
as a source of accurate information.
In contrast with much of the misinformation
posted on the Internet and social media,
Jehovah’s people serve
as “a pillar and support of the truth,”
as 1 Timothy 3:15 says.
But just what does it take
to prepare a Newsroom report?
Well, under the direction
of the Coordinators’ Committee
of the Governing Body,
the Office of Public Information, or OPI,
prepares articles for the JW Newsroom.
Now, they work closely
with Public Information Desks, or PIDs,
in our branch offices.
In the following report,
some of these brothers
share a behind-the-scenes look
at how articles in the last few years
have been written and published on JW News.
From the late 1960’s
to the late 1990’s,
Italian brothers were condemned
and imprisoned for refusing military service.
A recent survey revealed
that more than 14,000 brothers
from that group are still alive.
They were sentenced to a total
of almost 10,000 years in prison.
We thought that their experiences could make
a potential story
for the Newsroom section of jw.org,
along with comments from secular sources,
so we promptly notified OPI.
When we received that proposal,
we agreed with their assessment.
That’s when we go into action.
We’ll talk about the angle
back and forth with the PID
until we have something
that we know will work not only for Italy
but for our worldwide audience on jw.org.
Then we interviewed some brothers
who had been imprisoned the longest.
They had to face many challenges,
but they also recalled
how their loyalty was a great witness,
especially for some prison guards
who eventually became
Jehovah’s Witnesses as well.
This additional information was confirmed
and then added to the story.
Then we sent the draft to OPI.
Once the initial article
is written by the branch,
there’s still quite a bit of work
that has to be done.
We’ll edit the article, select the photos,
write the captions,
send it through proofreading,
and then, lastly, the article is sent back
to the Coordinators’ Committee
for their final review and approval.
Shortly after the article was posted
on jw.org
and the Italy PID
informed their local reporters,
over 50 media outlets in Italy
covered this story
and wrote articles about this topic.
Well, our hope was
that by publicizing this information,
it would not only be encouraging
to our brothers and sisters
but it would have a positive impact
on fair-minded officials in other countries
where our brothers are still dealing
with this issue of neutrality.
The year 2019 was the 25th anniversary
of the genocide in Rwanda,
so because of that,
there was greater interest
in the scholarly community, in particular,
about what happened during the genocide.
One of the things that OPI
was responsible for doing
was to collect experiences of people
who were our brothers and sisters;
who saw the violence;
and who survived
and helped others to survive,
sometimes at the risk of their own lives.
Our office assisted OPI
in preparing the article in two ways:
first of all,
ensuring that the release was accurate
and second, ensuring that the article
gave consideration to the perspective
of those who went through the genocide.
Many of the brothers have been able to read
that story on JW News,
and it’s encouraged them
when they see the courage and the faith
that our brothers displayed in Rwanda.
OPI has the privilege
of assisting the brothers in Russia.
We prepare news items on JW News.
Once a trial begins,
then the team works together
to prepare a JW News item.
We have to do lots of research
on the brother’s
or the sister’s personal case history.
Were they raided?
Were they put in pretrial detention?
We can introduce the brother or the sister
to the brotherhood,
and then they can pray for them.
Once we’ve put together the material,
we send it to the Public Information Desk.
And on the day of the verdict,
we post a Breaking News  update
to immediately alert the brotherhood.
How can you make the best use of JW News?
Look for opportunities to share news items
with your Bible students and others.
Many of these reports show
how Jehovah’s people
demonstrate love for one another.
Another way is by praying
for our brothers and sisters
that we read about in the Newsroom.
We hope you continue to use the Newsroom
to stay informed, to be encouraged,
and to remain united with God’s organization
—“a pillar and support of the truth.”